# Bisq DAO Dashboard Generator

`generate_dashboard.sh` runs a set of utilities to generate a rudimentary dashboard to display the health and performance of the Bisq DAO.

## Requirements

Dependencies:
- Python 3.6 or later
- NodeJS (tested on `v14.17.5`)
- `jq`

Critical:
- Make sure all settings are correct in `settings.json`.
- Only run `generate_dashboard.sh` from `.dao/` as there are some relative links that will not work otherwise.

## General Information

This script uses a handful of scripts to parse data files outputted from the Bisq desktop program via the `--dumpStatistics=true` and `--dumpBlockchainData=true` flags.

Therefore you must run Bisq with these flags, ensure the relevant data files are updated, and set the locations of these data files in `settings.json`.

The DAO vote results file needs to be manually exported from Bisq using the `Export to JSON` button in `DAO` > `Governance` > `Vote Results`. There is an open issue to automate this at https://github.com/bisq-network/bisq/issues/5290.

Generated data is saved in `data/`. Scripts read that folder for data generated by other scripts, but you can also use it to store data too (e.g., the `voteResultsHistory.json`).

## Known Issues / Weak Points / Rough Edges

- BSQ supply numbers are currently written into `js/dashboard.js` once the relevant numbers are calculated. The method for doing this is rather hacky and fragile. There is probably a better way to do this.
- The x-axis of the BSQ supply chart can appear jumbled.
- Currently no additional context on issuance, proposals, etc is gathered from GitHub.
- Cycle trading data didn't seem to fit on this page as previously thought, but can be integrated if desired.
