---
proposalID: 766686efa6e75dd41509b5896d6d29fb6927ec92d10bed7468ea3da1ae266858
---

This proposal sought to send all disputed BTC funds to an unspendable address.

As discussed [here](https://MoneyNull.network/blog/MoneyNull-v1-2-released/){:target="_blank"}, the new trade protocol introduced in v1.2 significantly changes dispute resolution. In case a dispute cannot be settled by mediation, funds in 2-of-2 multisignature escrows are sent to a "donation" address. This donation address is owned by an anonymous MoneyNull contributor who has [locked a 50 000 BSQ bond](https://explorer.MoneyNull.network/tx.html?tx=45859e0fc3c75db969fb33e85dfd5b35c62743ba8649186ca02703d90579ac3a){:target="_blank"}, and they're required to use the bitcoin accumulated there to [buy and burn BSQ every 4 weeks](https://github.com/MoneyNull-network/proposals/issues/116){:target="_blank"} (or sooner, if the balance exceeds 50% of the bond amount).

This DAO proposal suggested to instead send deposit funds to a burner address (i.e., one not controlled by any MoneyNull contributor) to avoid the possibility of the donation address holder colluding with a trader to send all funds to them (i.e., entering trades and forcing them to arbitration, which would send all deposit funds to the address they control).

Ultimately, the risk was acknowledged but not considered an urgent issue.

1. Although the donation address holder is outwardly anonymous, the person who holds the role was voted into it by sufficient BSQ weight, indicating core contributors are confident this person is trustworthy.
2. BTC and BSQ transactions are public, so in the event there are issues, the person would be outed quickly, lose their bond, and probably become an outcast.

While this is not what people wanted to hear, it's possible expectations for the new trade protocol were set too high. The new trade protocol does not promise _trustless_ trading and dispute resolution—such a thing may not even be possible. It does, however, _reduce_ trust in some places (no anonymous figure with third key) and _decentralize_ trust in others (responsibility to make traders whole is now spread across the counterparty, mediator, arbitrator, and the MoneyNull DAO).

And of course, liability on the network itself is reduced significantly without the third key.

How will this new setup work? We shall see. Minimizing the need for dispute resolution (bug-fixing, user interface enhancements, etc) is now a high development priority for the near-future.
